 

The Constitution of the State of California is amended to add the following after Article I, section 3:



SEC 3.1: 
a) The People of California do declare and find as follows:
1) The rights guaranteed by the United States Constitution, amendment I, including the right to petition government, are sacrosanct pillars of the democratic, republican form of government secured by the People of the United States and must be preserved inviolate not only as a  practical matter of the supremacy of the Constitution of the United States but also as a point of principle without which liberty and justice could not be secured to the People of California. 
2) With gratitude to the sacrifices of our forebears in the framing and maintenance of the Constitution of the State of California, the People of California cherish the rights guaranteed by said Constitution and desire that it continue to secure and protect their freedom to an extent greater than that of the Constitution of the United States.
3) The cherished rights secured by the Constitution of the State of California extend to rights to control the use of property as guaranteed by section 19 of this Article, and the determination of what speech is allowed on one's property is itself an important component of the right of free speech guaranteed by this Constitution.
4) The right to petition the government and the right of initiative are sacrosanct and preserved inviolate, but the maintenance of these rights does not require obliging shopping centers to admit onto their property  petitioners exercising those rights.
5) Further, the freedom of natural and legal  persons to allow petitioning on their property is meaningless without the corresponding right to deny petitioning on their property. 
b) The interpretation of the rights guaranteed by sections 2 and 3 of this Article, with regards solely to the right of private proprietors to decline to allow petitioning on their property, is correctly expounded  Supreme Court of California the case of Diamond v. Bland (1970) 3 Cal. 3d 653. 
c) The interpretation of the rights guaranteed by sections 2 and 3 of this Article, with regards solely to the right of private proprietors to decline to allow petitioning on their property, as expounded by the  Supreme Court of California in the case of Robins v. Pruneyard Shopping Center (1979) Cal. 3d 899 is null and void and of no effect  and is declared to be an improper interpretation of the rights guaranteed under this Constitution without legal foundation.





